[Music]
all right you guys are in for a treat
these are the new Asus R zephrus G14 and
g16 the small one and then a big one and
the moment I can get the g16 in this
Platinum white color the platinum silver
color I'm switching this is going to be
the device I'm going to be using so when
I pulled these things out of the box I
thought these are barely even
recognizable as G14 and g16 like this is
so different from the original product
and so much more refined and elegant I
was like this doesn't even look like a
gaming laptop it's so clean so this
device is in the Platinum white color
way and then below here is the eclipse
gray color way and The Branding is so
subtle it's just lasered out on the
corner here there's no more holographic
badges like they've had in the past uh
and then there's also this diagonal
slash that runs through the devices this
thing is I love it I love everything
about it so it's like this reflective
metal and if you get up close to it
you'll notice that there's a series of
slits that run along the length of this
design accent and these light up there's
a series of white LEDs underneath those
slits and they shine through and it
looks so cool the gray color already
looks really nice but then the white
sucker for white colored laptops so this
is just it's on another level all right
so the chassis on these devices so this
is like an aluminum top panel but the
chassis is also aluminum but this is
milled out from one block that's very
uncommon when it comes to gaming laptops
the razor blades are made like that and
it usually jacks up the production cost
of these types of products but it's a
single block of metal like gets machined
out to make a very clean looking
keyboard deck uh so we'll come back to
this in a second I want to talk about
the displays so both of these displays
use OLED panels so they have OLED
options this one is the 16in this one
here
is the 14in now OLED when it comes to
gaming panels it's a it's a debate
that's been going on for a while I
personally think that OLED screens are
the best panels you can possibly get for
gaming content cre creation is a
separate question but when it comes to
just straight up gaming I love OLED it's
got so many advantages it's got awesome
colors fantastic contrast ratios because
the black pixels are just straight up
black but OLED panels do run the risk of
having shorter lifespans because of OLED
burning now on regular laptops like a
productivity focused laptop I don't
think OLED burning is a big issue
because like you're not staring at the
same thing for eight hours unchanging at
Max brightness but on gaming laptops it
is a risk right you're often in game for
hours with unchanging UI elements like
your health bar bar or like a mini map
that just doesn't change for the entire
duration of your gaming session and
you're often at really high brightness
those are the types of things that can
cause burning on a traditional OLED
panel but I asked Asus about theirs they
stated that they have a lot of
engineering time that's gone into these
panels to prevent that kind of stuff
they also have a screen saver that's
like a pixel refreshing screen saver as
well as some software tweaks that they
recommend to preserve the health of
these screens so hopefully it holds up
because these are very nice screens now
one thing I noticed on these panels
actually it's with every OLED panel I've
ever seen on a laptop the color accuracy
and color gamut tends to shift the
moment you play around with brightness
right so if you really care about having
color accurate workspaces I would lean
toward like a regular IPS panel over the
OLED technology that's on these uh but
again they do offer these devices with
regular like non OLED screens okay the
keyboard I've grown used to this
keyboard I've used it so much the one
thing I dislike there's no print screen
complain about it every years it's like
four years now that I've been talking
about this I don't know why there's
still no print screen I use it all the
time it's not the same as window shift s
there's multiple applications out there
that require a print screen you have to
like rebind it it's great keyboard other
than the lack of the print screen this
trackpad is massive it's as big as you
could possibly make it on this device
right arguably too big because if I
don't disable this trackpad before
playing games sometimes I'll get some
misclicks from my palm uh so the
keyboard also lights up RGB lighting
like you'd expect but on the left and
right are some speakers and these
speakers sound
awesome like so much better than I would
ever expected from a Windows gaming
laptop so both the 16-in and the 14in
have six speakers in them there's two
that are in like this lower area there
like a force cancelling set of them and
then there's a tweeter that fires out
the left and right uh speaker Grill now
if you've seen any of my videos before I
often rip on Windows laptops just having
terrible speakers it's never made sense
to me that they often suck these are way
better and actually sound pretty close
to what the MacBook Pros can put out in
terms of audio quality okay let's talk
about performance so these two products
the uh G14 and g16 run two different
chips this product here is running the
8000 series AMD chips these are running
the new meteor Lake chips from Intel the
core Ultra products both of these are
very capable chips but they're not going
to be as powerful as the top-of-the-line
Intel chips but the thing to keep in
mind is that on the RG zephyr's products
these have always been about thin and
light performance and it's so much
better that Intel finally has a lower
wattage but still high performance chip
that can fit in here and power these
systems very well while equipping it
with high-end Nvidia GPU so the G14 can
go up to an RTX 470 the g16 can go up to
an RTX 490 now obviously not at full
wattage these are thinner systems but
there're still very powerful gaming
laptops thermal performance and fan
noise are already very good but because
these are engineering samples they could
actually get better at the retail launch
uh battery life does have a pretty big
battery 90 W hours the 14in has a 73 W
hour battery but neither of these
devices have replaceable Ram only the
storage can be swapped out now in terms
of charging it there's a new AC adapter
plug for these devices and this is it
here it's a proprietary adapter it is
reversible so you can plug it right side
up upside down but I think that since
the bigger higher wat systems are 240
Watts at Max and the smaller one is 180
Watts you could have done this with USBC
there is USBC power delivery 3.1 that
can pump out 240 WTS I imagine the AC
adapter for that thing would be very
expensive compared to this right to be
able to handle the right voltage it
would have been more expensive
but who wants a proprietary adapter
another USC Port would have been awesome
okay quick note about the ports uh
there's two USPA two USC so that's the
right side this is the left side uh so
they also have HDMI and headphone jack
on the left side but there is a couple
differences because the bigger product
is running the Intel chip this has
Thunderbolt 4 so if you have Thunderbolt
perals you need that in your workflow
this one can do it the a the AMD product
can't do it uh the other thing is the SD
card slot so on the big one you have
fulls sizee SD and on the little one you
have only micro SD but there you have it
G14 g16 these are so nice what do you
think aren't these things awesome aren't
these the best looking laptops you've
ever laid your eyes on I mean come
[Music]
on